# SoAS-model
A Systems Engineering Methodology for System of Autonomous Systems: Architecture and Integration:
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) rapidly transform individual systems by providing autonomous capabilities. This new class of systems becomes a constituent system in a System of Systems (SoS), evolving it into a System of Autonomous Systems (SoAS). SoAS is fraught with new Systems Engineering (SE) challenges for architecting, integration, testing, and evaluation that originate from the Level of Autonomy (LoA) of autonomous systems. The LoA refers to the level of autonomous capabilities of a system depending on its AI/ML technology. The model provided here demonstrates our proposed Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) method for SoAS architecture and integration implemented on a hypothetical search-and-rescue case study. The proposed method falls under the System Engineering for AI (SE4AI) umbrella where SE principles are tailored to accommodate challenges posed by the integration of autonomy. This method builds upon the Object-Oriented Systems Engineering Method (OOSEM) and modifies it to facilitate autonomy integration by leveraging the SWOT (i.e., Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, Threat) analysis and SoAS taxonomy. Moreover, the proposed method tailors the Unified Architecture Framework (UAF) to model different levels of abstraction of SoAS with varying LoAs. The current model guides the identification and creation of multiple SoAS architectures in the UAF that must be analyzed for suitability and emergent behavior to select an architecture with the most suitable LoAs. This model was developed in Magic Systems of Systems Architect.

 
Copyright [2025] [Mohammadreza Torkjazi]
All Rights Reserved. No part of this repository may be reproduced, modified, or distributed without explicit permission.
